# Tata_Data_Visualisation-Virtual-Experience-Programe
Tata Data Visualisation Empowering Business with Effective Insights virtual experience programme.
The Tata visualisation is a virtual experience programme for Empowering Business with Effective Insights virtual experience programme An online retail store has hired me as a consultant to review their data and provide insights that would be valuable to the CEO and CMO of the business. The business has been performing well and the management wants me analyse what the major contributing factors are to the revenue so they can strategically plan for next year. I drafted questions that I think will be important and relevant to the CEO and CMO. I created a set of four questions that I anticipate each business leader will ask and want to know the answers to. The set of questions were diiferentiated as both the CEO and CMO view business decisions through different lenses.

I was asked by the CEO and CMO to provide visuals on the metrics that they wish to analyse for the online retail store. The senior management wants to understand how their business is performing and what areas are the key strengths of the company. They are also focused on identifying opportunities that would lead to growth and generate more revenue in the future.

Once I have an idea of what is required from the perspective of the CEO and CMO, I came up with the perfect visual which illustrate what the senior managers are looking for in each scenario. After this was completed, The CEO and CMO have recently met to finalise the requirements and would like me to provide them with some analysis and visuals that would help answer their questions. Both, the executives are interested in viewing and understanding how they can use the data to make more meaningful decisions. I provided insights which they can use to create the expansion strategy. The executives want to analyse the trends and the breakdown by different categories so that they have clarity on how the revenue is being generated and what are the main factors affecting the online store.

In this task, I created the visuals around four of the questions that the CEO and CMO have requested. I used Microsoft Power BI to create the visual with the datasets that was provided. Before I started the analysis, I made sure that the data is cleaned properly. I noticed that the data contains some returns to the store which are provided in negative quantities and there are unit prices that were input in error. I performed the following steps to clean this data.

Created a check that the quantity should not be below 1 unit
Create a check that the Unit price should not be below $0 For the checked created above I used conditional formulas where the logic would state that if the conditions are met then the tool should exclude the data from analysis. I also used data transformation methods to get rid of the bad data. Once this is done, the data is good to be used for further analysis. I Created each visual on a separate tab with the name of the tab displaying the question number. The visualization and analysis was completed using Power BI I created a presentation that was presented to the CEO and CMO showing report and insights from the datasets provided using PowerPoint Presentation.
